---
layout: archive
title: "Project AX.25"
permalink: /projects/ax25/
author_profile: true
---


This is a current project as of August 2019. It's the use of an older method of remote access using FM radio. Specifically, I’ll be trying to setup two way IP communication using AX.25 for as cheaply as I can using consumer equipment. My end goal will be to try and run a telnet session (telnet, because encryption is deemed illegal by the FCC, except in certain situations) between two radios. This is something that can be expanded upon to host a two way data connection from a little as a few feet, to hundreds of miles without using any in place network infrastructure. 

So far, I have tested a simple setup using a program called SoundModem (<a href="http://soundmodem.vk4msl.id.au/">http://soundmodem.vk4msl.id.au/</a>) and was able to capture some network traffic from the interface it created using my sound card.

<iframe src="/images/ax251.png" width="520" height="292" style="border:none;"></iframe>

Quick walk through of what’s above: Source is my call sign, KE0MNK which is required by FCC for legal transmission over the air. I gave soundmodem an IP and it began ARP requests to find a mac address for it. Because I didn’t have another laptop listening on its audio port to transceive, I never did get a response. This shows me this project is possible though. With another device, I should be able to run a connection back and forth.

SoundModem did work pretty well from first glance, however, I found another program that is a little newer and perhaps more reliable that is called Direwolf (<a href="https://github.com/wb2osz/direwolf">https://github.com/wb2osz/direwolf</a>) I’m planning to do some testing with it soon. With either of these programs, an IP connection can be made over an audio input/output. That means just about any radio that has audio input and output should have the ability to do AX.25 by just using FM with a computer as audio input. That brings me onto the radios…

When I acquired my FCC amateur radio license over a year ago, I did some research into cheap radios I could purchase to let me use my license. From every forum I read, I ran into perhaps one of the cheapest, barely usable radios available called the BaoFeng UV-5R. (<a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B007H4VT7A/ref=cm_sw_em_r_mt_dp_U_xLoNDbF0ACDWE">Amazon Link</a>) This is a low powered hand-held radio capable of transmitting in two of the amateur radio bands. With the built in antennas, they are able to transmit a few miles in line of sight. They also have audio input and output, and with minimal modification, should be able to transmit from a given audio input. 

One point where I may run into some issues is with activating the transmission on the Baofeng. I may need to wire up some small circuitry using an opamp and a feedback loop to trigger the PTT circuit any time there is audio so the radio transmits. I haven’t gotten this far, but I should be able to figure out something fairly quickly to make this setup work. 

<iframe src="/images/ax252.png" width="520" height="292" style="border:none;"></iframe>

More to come soon!